---
title: 'SEPEG Model: Betake Food System To Sustainability And Equity'
date: 2021-02-09
permalink: /projects/2021/0209/
tags:
  - Modeling
  - Teamwork
  - Matlab
---

In Interdisciplinary Contest in Modeling 2021, our team 2100462, namely, Zelin Ni, Tianjie Dai and Ke Xu, chose Problem E and eventually got the award of Finalist (Top 1.9%).

Summary
======
Generally speaking, the existing food system plays an indispensable role in the whole process of worldwide food production, circulation and distribution. Nevertheless, it is undeniable that the existing food system has already shown its defects and vulnerability reflected from some recent news in the global scale, which mainly attributes to the current preference of profitability and efficiency. Aiming to cover the shortage and optimize the food system, our team proceed as follows:

Firstly, we dissect the data downloaded from FAO’s official website and scope 6 typical Asian countries in our consideration. To evaluate the food system more comprehensively, we carefully select 10 indexes subordinated to 5 indicators, namely sustainability, equity, profitability, efficiency and globalization factor. Intended to pursue equity and sustainability, we then obtain the combined weights of 5 indicators through both objective evaluation by EWM and subjective revision by AHP. Through Roulette Wheel Selection and further process of the indexes, we launch the Sustainability-Equity-Profitability-Efficiency-Globalization Model (SEPEG Model). Through time series prediction and combining with specific cases, we calculate the time necessarily required to implement the new food system.

To further probe the features of the optimized system, we continue to explore the disparities between them in the next part. We sum up the benefits and costs comparing the food system after being optimized by SEPEG Model with before. Without losing generality, we choose Japan and Indonesia as verified objects of our model, for Japan represents developed country and the other stands for the developing. By comparative analysis of the indexes, some differences between developed countries and the developing ones are concluded. At last, we explore when these changes would happen according to different indexes, which are classified into four types. 

Then, we continue to research the feasibility of the Zero Hunger goal mapped out by UN five years ago. Based on SEPEG Model, combined with ARIMA and Grey Model, we give the predictions of Hunger Index and Food Insecurity Index of Indonesia in 2030, one typical underdeveloped and populous country. Unfortunately, the grand vision may not be accomplished based on the current situation before the scheduled deadline.

At last, we validate the extensibility and adaptability of SEPEG Model by selecting other regions and nations such as east and southeast Asia and the Republic of Korea. Subsequently, through sensitivity analysis, we find out the uncertainty of SEPEG Model is weak and the model has the characteristic of robustness. Finally, integrated with strengths and weaknesses, we make a comprehensive assessment of SEPEG model.

Keywords and Definitions
------
Food System, Entropy Weight Method, Analytic Hierarchy Process, Roulette Whell Selection, ARIMA, Grey Model

[Codes and Final Draft are Here.](https://github.com/Elfenreigen/ICM-2021-E)
