---
title: '[CVPR 2024, 3rd author] Mitigating Noisy Correspondence by Geometrical Structure Consistency Learning'
date: 2024-02-26
permalink: /projects/2024/0226/
tags:
  - Noisy Correspondence
---

In this CVPR 2024 paper, we focus on mitigating noisy correspondence which is a common problem in multi-modal learning.

Summary
======
Noisy correspondence that refers to mismatches in cross-modal data pairs, are prevalent on human-annotated or web-crawled datasets. Prior approaches to leverage such data mainly consider the application of uni-modal noisy label learning without amending the impact on both cross-modal and intra-modal geometrical structures in multimodal learning. Actually, we find that both structures are effective to discriminate noisy correspondence through structural differences when being well-established. Inspired by this observation, we introduce a Geometrical Structure Consistency (GSC) method to infer the true correspondence. Specifically, GSC ensures the preservation of geometrical structures within and between modalities, allowing for the accurate discrimination of noisy samples based on structural differences. Utilizing these inferred true correspondence labels, GSC refines the learning of geometrical structures by filtering out the noisy samples. Our experiments across three well-known cross-modal datasets confirm that GSC effectively identifies noisy samples under various conditions of noisy correspondence, and significantly outperforms the current leading methods.

Keywords and Definitions
------
Noisy Correspondence

[Final Draft is Here.](https://arxiv.org)
